# Solution of UVA 12170 Easy Climb

Yet another guessing conclusion problem.

We made some small samples(not impossible - impossible is easy to judge) to guess the conclusion.

Sample $\#1$:

Data:

$10$ Mountains, $d=2$, height:

```plaintext
[1]  4
[2]  5
[3]  10
[4]  6
[5]  6
[6]  9
[7]  4
[8]  7
[9]  9
[10] 8
```

Answer:

Decrease the height of the third rock by $4$, decrease the height of the sixth rock by $1$, increase the height of the seventh rock by $2$. The height becomes:

```plaintext
[1]  4
[2]  5
[3]  6
[4]  6
[5]  6
[6]  8
[7]  6
[8]  7
[9]  9
[10] 8
```

Its cost is $6$, which is minimized. And it fits the condition.

Sample $\#2$:

$4$ Mountains, $d=2$, height:

```plaintext
[1] 3
[2] 0
[3] 6
[4] 3
```

Answer:

Increase the height of the second rock by $1$ and decrease the height of the third rock by $3$. The height becomes:

```plaintext
[1] 3
[2] 1
[3] 3
[4] 3
```

Its cost is $4$, which is minimized. And it fits the condition.

It looks like the conclusion is obvious - just adjust the rock to the nearest eligible height. But the hack is also obvious:

Sample $\#3$:

$5$ Mountains, $d = 1$, height:

```plaintext
[1] 100 
[2] 114
[3] 514
[4] 1
[5] 104
```

The only possible solution is decrease the second rock by $13$, decrease the third rock by $412$ and increase the forth rock by $102$.

That makes cost $527$, which is big, but this is the only possible solution.

But if we use the 'conclusion' above, we got:

Decrease the second rock by $13$, decrease the third rock by $412$, increase the forth rock by $100$ and decrease the fifth rock by $2$.

That makes cost $527$ too but we **can't** change the height of the first and last rock.

We can guess the conclusion again: We want to use Dynamic Programming to solve this problem and we can define the state $f_{i,j}$ means we consider the first $i$ rocks, and the height of the $i$-th rock is $j$, and $f_{i,j}$ is the minimum cost of it.

The dream is great, but the number of the state is $100 \times 10^9 = 10^{11}$, obviously it will exceed the limit of the memory (which absolutely lower than $372.53\mathrm{GB}$).

But we can make the number of the state lower.
